I remember as a kid on my mom's compaq presario(now gutted, fitted with a power-efficient mobo and psu and used as a home-server), every cylinder of the 60gb disk of hers was clogged, not to mention her constantly swapping 2 gigs of ram straining under the weight of vista. The desktop was smeared with a spray of icons, photos, CD rom software, pdfs, and all other byte-cruft under the sun. Startup was an affair marked by the machine sputtering to life, only to limp thru login and come back after the desktop had its chance to catch its breath with all the startup programs it had installed. But 2 formative programs were jumbled amongst the clusters of dangling warez, faithful companions that were mysteriously fast despite the other software dragging at their ankles, and those were my mom's firefox and thunderbird clients. I had my rebellious years where I thought I was so cool for installing google chrome, but now I regret converting my family. Because I've come back to firefox and thunderbird and --god-- What a refreshing experience. For the first time in a while, Software that hasn't really changed in all these years, but that's OK. The three core pieces of software I use today are codium(vscode for people with an aversion to admitting m$ won), firefox, and you guessed it, thunderbird.

Now don't get me wrong, they have plenty of faults, firefox sync dosen't get everything, and thunderbird sync is nonexistent, you lose the config dir, you lose everything, not to mention that it dosen't work with M$ office OWA(however there's a $10/year plugin for that well worth the cost). I used to use apps like ferdi or hamsket, but the workflow of thunderbird, having everything in one place just makes me miss the era where stuff like pidgin actually worked, where protocols were simple enough that yes lil' Billy, you can have your EVERYTHING on one plate. I've tried foolin' with pidgin and discord and signal nowadays, no dice. Firefox too, brings back a cathartic era of the web for me, when I wasn't afraid of google trying to feed me their webusb and web-bluetooth and web-hadron-colliders, when I was happy enough futzing around on mrdoob and marveling at the 3d inside what I previously thought was just a box for text and funny little 2d cartoons. The number of tabs you can have open in firefox compared to chrome, with such great performance is criminal. An organization funded primarily by googlebux(mozilla) somehow outcompetes google, and manages to stick it to em' by being the only complete browser engine not running on chromium.

So please, I'll implore you to give both a try. And birdtray for thunderbird is a doggone good companion.

And before people get mad about pocket, I've never seen it, maybe I disabled it a while ago and firefox sync got it, but I never see those news stories or the lil save icon(or maybe it's just in the greyspace of my eyes) so it dosen't bother me in the slightest.

sidenote: signal is nice in the same way thunderbird is, but for joining encrypted and regular SMS messages. Before you come and complain about that to me, I've locked myself at V5.49.4, it does not prompt me to upgrade, everything works and syncs with my desktop. I am(and will continue to be) -euphoric-
